You already know SQL, so dashboards
should be easy, right? But every time
we're back doing the same thing. We're
exporting CSVs, writing a quick script
that we didn't actually plan to write.
And those BI tickets, they're still
sitting there, which is weird cuz
nowadays this problem should be solved.
And for a lot of people, it is. A lot of
devs are now using Redash to ship
internal analytics in just minutes. It's
open source, over 28,000 stars on
GitHub, and the latest version just
dropped. And honestly, it might finally
kill our endless spreadsheet workflow.
I'll show you how to set all this up in
just a few minutes.
Now, Redash is pretty simple. It's a SQL
client and a dashboard builder in one
tool. You connect your data, so
Postgres, MySQL, BigQuery, Snowflake,
you name it. You connect what you
need. And then you just write SQL. You
now get things like autocomplete, a
schema browser, turn results into
charts, and you can drop all this into
your dashboards. All done. And that's
exactly why devs like it, because it
replaces a bunch of annoying little
tasks with one clean workflow. Instead
of exporting to Excel or watching
reports, we just do it once in one
interface across all of our different
databases. There's no lock-ins, it's
fully self-hosted, which makes it free.
So, it's not just dashboards, it's less
redundancy. Let me show you. If you
enjoy coding tools and tips to speed up
your workflow, be sure to subscribe. We
have videos coming out all the time. All
right, I got a fresh Redash instance
running locally. First, I can add a data
source, and right here it's done.
Now, I can write a query, and notice
this. Autocomplete, schema browser.
Here, I can click tables instead of
guessing names. Let's grab some events
data, group by day, for example, and run
it. Done.
Now, one click, I can visualize. I can
switch to a line chart or another chart,
add a parameter so we can filter by a
date range, and see it's already
progressing kind of fast here. Now, if I
drop it into a dashboard,
I can now even schedule it to refresh
every hour, and that's pretty much it.
Query, chart, dashboard, shareable link,
with no spreadsheets. It looks simple.
That's the point. On paper, Redash looks
like every other BI tool, but it doesn't
feel like one. Redash is built for
people who want to write SQL, not scale.
That's the major difference here between
others. Metabase is good for no-code
teams, but once queries get complex,
it's going to slow down. Superset gives
you more visual power and scale, but
it's heavier and not as fast for just
writing queries. Then of course, there's
Tableau and Power BI. These are very
polished and honestly the baseline for
getting into analytics for a long time,
but these two tools are expensive and
often overkill for what small tools do
and what we actually need. Redash sits
in a different spot. It feels like your
SQL editor grew just enough to be useful
to the rest of your team. You still get
things like queries across multiple
databases, great. Reusable snippets,
results caching, API access, and the
ability to remix someone else's queries
instantly. That's why most dev teams are
starting to pick up on this a lot
quicker than these other blown-out
expensive tools. So, what do people
actually like? Well, first, the SQL
workflow is fast. You're not fighting
the tool, hence the point why SQL is
built in. You write the query and you
move on. Then, self-hosting is simple.
This is an open-source tool, which means
I can self-host it, and I'm just going
to use Docker. So, we know Docker, it's
one command, we're done, it's going.
Then, there's tons of data sources plus
scheduling and alerts. And the API and
embedding, they're great if you're
building internal tools. For a lot of
teams, this becomes something they use
every day, but again, open-source tools.
This is not that polished, so there's
going to be tradeoffs. The
visualizations are good, but they're not
amazing. If you need highly custom
dashboards, then other alternatives are
going to be better. Self-hosting also
means you own the ops, updates, scaling,
maintenance. That's on you, obviously,
right? So, you have to be aware of that.
If your team doesn't like SQL, this is
not going to feel great. Search could be
better, and mobile isn't good. So, it's
not perfect, but it does one job really
well, and that's kind of the point. So,
should you use it? Well, if your team
already works in SQL, probably, yeah.
Especially if you have multiple
databases, you want internal dashboards
without paying a lot, or you're building
dev-facing analytics. This is a cool,
open-source, free tool. The use cases
are practical, right? Pipeline
monitoring, tracking, metrics, updates,
even joining API data with database
queries. That's where it does really
well. Not because it's fancy, no, but
because it removes pain from work that
we're already doing every day. But
honestly, this is cool, but just skip
over this if your team wants no code.
Just go to Metabase, right? If you need
more massive dashboards, go to Tableau
or Power BI. But for a lot of us, Redash
still makes sense. It's actively
maintained, it fits our stack well, the
setup is fast, and that's the pretty
good trait. It makes it simple to get
started, and that's what a lot of us
love. So, to get started, just clone the
repo, run your Docker Compose, that's
it. Just install it and see if it works
for you. So, yeah, that's Redash. SQL,
easy dashboard sharing, and way less
nonsense. If you enjoy open-source tools
and coding tips like this, be sure to
subscribe to the Better Stack channel.
We'll see you in another video.